
Job Readiness:

Getting ready for your job interview and the job market is super competitive.  You need to prepare and give yourself all the advantages that you can.  Your first interview is your first impression with the company and if you are getting an interview then they at least should find you potentially qualified.  This should give solace to your mind if you are nervous.  But taking the extra steps will set your mind at more ease.

You should research the company and the position dilligently.  This helps in the interview process and pegs you as a go-getter that takes the initiative.  You shouldn't discuss salary until the last phase when they want you as a hire.  You need to do your due-dilligence here too.  Negotiations are best when both parties get what they are looking for. You need to make sure you are a good fit and to tell them why you deserve the salary.  What value can you bring to the company? If you find you are not the best fit for the job, let them know and ask for a referrence.  Even if you think you are the best candidate and you dont get the job, you can ask for referrals to companies that you will best fit.

Another way for you to help land the job is to be referred by someone who works there.  Jobs are often filled by people who refer and know you and can verify your worhiness to handle the position. But make sure your resume is clear, concise, short and to the point.  You dont want to have too many keywords and buzzwords.  HR people can tell when you are bluffing them and inflating yourself for the position. But making sure your resume is well written and unique helps you get to the front of the line.  Its expected and if you have mistakes then you will be tossed out first.

On looking the part, make sure you are dressed for success.  People treat you different when you hold a good appearance and proper posture.  These things can seem futile and a waste, but they are effective and help you get a leg up.  A fresh hair cut, and clean crisp suit/attire that fits you well is wise.

Make sure you send a thank-you note that is personalized after the interview.  Even a nicely worded email or phone call can greatly help you stand out and improve your chances.

If you make a mistake it can be an opportunity to show how you handle failure.  Mistakes happen and how you handle yourself helps shape your character and capabilities in their mind.  Making sure you are on-time is a must but if you are late make sure you let them know ahead of time and dont act too flustered.  Apologize for the delay and express your interest in completing the interview.



